[Polkadot Wiki Migration] Smart Contracts (#23)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: develop/application-devs/smart-contracts/smart-contracts.md

The Polkadot SDK presently supports smart contracts out-of-the-box in several ways:

- The EVM pallet offered by [Frontier](https://github.com/paritytech/frontier){target=\_blank}
- The [contracts pallet](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/blob/master/substrate/frame/contracts/){target=\_blank} in the FRAME library for Wasm-based contracts

### Frontier EVM Contracts

[Frontier](https://github.com/paritytech/frontier) is the suite of tools that enables a Polkadot SDK-based chain to run Ethereum contracts (EVM) natively with the same API/RPC interface. Ethereum addresses can also be mapped directly to and from the Polkadot SDK's SS58 scheme from existing accounts.

- [Pallet EVM](https://docs.rs/pallet-evm/latest/pallet_evm/){target=\_blank} - enables functionality of running EVM (Solidity) contracts
- [Pallet Ethereum](https://docs.rs/pallet-ethereum/latest/pallet_ethereum/){target=\_blank} - Ethereum RPC implementation, block emulation, and Ethereum transaction validation

### Contracts Pallet

> The contracts pallet (`pallet_contracts`) implements a Wasm based approach to smart contracts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The contracts pallet ([`pallet_contracts`](https://docs.rs/pallet-contracts/latest/pallet_contracts/index.html#contracts-pallet){target=\_blank}) implements a Wasm based approach to smart contracts.
```

- [ink!](https://use.ink/){target=\_blank} - Polkadot's "native" smart contract stack, based on Wasm
- [OpenBrush](https://docs.openbrush.io/){target=\_blank} - an `ink!` library providing standard contracts based on [PSP](https://github.com/w3f/PSPs){target=\_blank} with useful contracts and macros for building
- [ink!athon](https://inkathon.xyz/){target=\_blank} - starter kit for full-stack dApps with ink! smart contracts and frontend

ink! has laid much of the groundwork for a new smart contract stack that is based on a Wasm virtual machine and compatible with Polkadot SDK-based chains.

## Smart Contract Environments

Many smart contract platforms are building to become a parachain in the ecosystem. A community created and maintained list of different smart contract platforms can be found at [PolkaProjects](https://www.polkaproject.com/#/projects?cateID=1&tagID=6){target=\_blank}. Additionally, information about ink smart contracts can be accessed at [use.ink](https://use.ink/#where-can-i-deploy-ink-contracts){target=\_blank}.

#### Moonbeam

> - ink!: **Unsupported**
> - EVM (Solidity): [**Supported**](https://docs.moonbeam.network/builders/get-started/quick-start/){target=\_blank}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ink! - **Unsupported**
- EVM (Solidity) - [**Supported**](https://docs.moonbeam.network/builders/get-started/quick-start/){target=\_blank}
```

## Smart Contracts Versus Pallets

When developing a smart contract, you create a sandboxed program that executes specific logic associated with a chain address. Unlike pallets, which integrate directly into a blockchain's runtime and define its core logic, smart contracts operate independently in a more isolated environment. Pallets can manage critical tasks like block production or governance and can be added, modified, or removed through forkless runtime upgrades.

Smart contracts, on the other hand, require careful upgrade planning, as their functionality can't be updated without explicitly coding mechanisms for future changes. Parachains offer flexibility, allowing developers to define the environment where these contracts run and enabling others to build on it.

These two options also differ in how they handle fees. Smart contracts follow a gas metering model for execution costs, while pallets and runtimes offer more flexible options for fee models.

!!!info "Additional information" 

>       - Refer to the ['Runtime vs. Smart Contracts'](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/polkadot_sdk_docs/reference_docs/runtime_vs_smart_contract/index.html){target=\_blank} section of the Polkadot SDK Rustdocs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - Refer to the [Runtime vs. Smart Contracts](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/polkadot_sdk_docs/reference_docs/runtime_vs_smart_contract/index.html){target=\_blank} section of the Polkadot SDK Rust docs
```

>       - This post answers the question of when a developer might choose to develop a runtime versus a smart contract with more technical depth: [When should one build a Substrate (Polkadot SDK) runtime versus a Substrate (Polkadot SDK) smart contract?](https://stackoverflow.com/a/56041305){target=\_blank}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - A Stack Overflow post answers the question of when a developer might choose to develop a runtime versus a smart contract with more technical depth: [When should one build a Substrate (Polkadot SDK) runtime versus a Substrate (Polkadot SDK) smart contract?](https://stackoverflow.com/a/56041305){target=\_blank}
```

If the previous item starts with "Refer to", I feel like this one should follow suit or neither of them should have any like "refer to", "check out", etc. language

## Building a Smart Contract

Remember, the relay chain doesn't support smart contracts natively. However, since the parachains that connect to it support arbitrary state transitions, they also support smart contracts.

The Polkadot SDK presently supports smart contracts out-of-the-box in multiple ways:

- The EVM pallet offered by [Frontier](https://github.com/paritytech/frontier){target=\_blank}

> - The [contracts pallet](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/blob/master/substrate/frame/contracts/){target=\_blank} in the FRAME library for Wasm-based contracts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The [Contracts pallet](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/blob/master/substrate/frame/contracts/){target=\_blank} in the FRAME library for Wasm-based contracts
```

Pallet names we've been capitalizing

### Frontier EVM Contracts

[Frontier](https://github.com/paritytech/frontier) is the suite of tools that enables a Polkadot SDK-based chain to run Ethereum contracts (EVM) natively with the same API/RPC interface. Ethereum addresses can also be mapped directly to and from the Polkadot SDK's SS58 scheme from existing accounts.

> - [Pallet EVM](https://docs.rs/pallet-evm/latest/pallet_evm/){target=\_blank} - enables functionality of running EVM (Solidity) contracts
> - [Pallet Ethereum](https://docs.rs/pallet-ethereum/latest/pallet_ethereum/){target=\_blank} - Ethereum RPC implementation, block emulation, and Ethereum transaction validation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [**Pallet EVM**](https://docs.rs/pallet-evm/latest/pallet_evm/){target=\_blank} - enables functionality of running EVM (Solidity) contracts
- [**Pallet Ethereum**](https://docs.rs/pallet-ethereum/latest/pallet_ethereum/){target=\_blank} - Ethereum RPC implementation, block emulation, and Ethereum transaction validation
```

### Contracts Pallet

> The contracts pallet ([`pallet_contracts`](https://docs.rs/pallet-contracts/latest/pallet_contracts/index.html#contracts-pallet){target=\_blank}) implements a Wasm based approach to smart contracts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Contracts pallet ([`pallet_contracts`](https://docs.rs/pallet-contracts/latest/pallet_contracts/index.html#contracts-pallet){target=\_blank}) implements a Wasm-based approach to smart contracts.
```

1. **Wasm** - the contracts pallet uses Wasm as its compilation target. Any language that compiles to Wasm could be used to write smart contracts. Nevertheless, it is better to have a dedicated domain-specific language, so Parity offers the [ink!](#ink) language

> 2. **Deposit** - contracts must hold a deposit (named `_ContractDeposit_` ) suitably large enough to justify their existence on-chain. The developer must deposit this into the new contract on top of the `_ExistentialDeposit_`

Reviewer 2: Are we sure the underscores are needed here?

3. **Caching** - contracts are cached by default, which means they only need to be deployed once and can be instantiated as many times as you want afterward. Caching helps minimize on-chain storage requirements. Additionally, contracts that are no longer in use and have an `_ExistentialDeposit_` balance of zero are erased from storage in a process called reaping

> ### Ink

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### ink!
```

[ink!](https://github.com/use-ink/ink){target=\_blank} is a domain-specific language for writing smart contracts in Rust and compiles to Wasm code.

Additional resources available to developers who want to start writing smart contracts to deploy on Polkadot SDK-based parachains:

> - [ink!](https://use.ink/){target=\_blank} - Polkadot's "native" smart contract stack, based on Wasm
> - [OpenBrush](https://docs.openbrush.io/){target=\_blank} - an `ink!` library providing standard contracts based on [PSP](https://github.com/w3f/PSPs){target=\_blank} with useful contracts and macros for building
> - [ink!athon](https://inkathon.xyz/){target=\_blank} - starter kit for full-stack dApps with ink! smart contracts and frontend

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [**ink!**](https://use.ink/){target=\_blank} - Polkadot's "native" smart contract stack, based on Wasm
- [**OpenBrush**](https://docs.openbrush.io/){target=\_blank} - an `ink!` library providing standard contracts based on [PSP](https://github.com/w3f/PSPs){target=\_blank} with useful contracts and macros for building
- [**ink!athon**](https://inkathon.xyz/){target=\_blank} - starter kit for full-stack dApps with ink! smart contracts and frontend
```

ink! has laid much of the groundwork for a new smart contract stack that is based on a Wasm virtual machine and compatible with Polkadot SDK-based chains.

## Smart Contract Environments

> Many smart contract platforms are building to become a parachain in the ecosystem. A community-created and maintained list of different smart contract platforms can be found at [PolkaProjects](https://www.polkaproject.com/#/projects?cateID=1&tagID=6){target=\_blank}. Additionally, information about ink smart contracts can be accessed at [use.ink](https://use.ink/#where-can-i-deploy-ink-contracts){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Many smart contract platforms are building to become a parachain in the ecosystem. A community-created and maintained list of different smart contract platforms can be found at [PolkaProjects](https://www.polkaproject.com/#/projects?cateID=1&tagID=6){target=\_blank}. Additionally, information about ink! smart contracts can be accessed at [use.ink](https://use.ink/#where-can-i-deploy-ink-contracts){target=\_blank}.
```

### Moonbeam

> - ink! - **Unsupported**
> - EVM (Solidity) - [**Supported**](https://docs.moonbeam.network/builders/get-started/quick-start/){target=\_blank}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **ink!**- unsupported
- **EVM (Solidity)** - [supported](https://docs.moonbeam.network/builders/get-started/quick-start/){target=\_blank}
```

[Moonbeam](https://moonbeam.network/){target=\_blank} is a Polkadot parachain that supports Ethereum-compatible smart contracts. Since Moonbeam uses [Frontier](https://github.com/paritytech/frontier){target=\_blank}, an interoperability layer with existing Ethereum tooling, it supports all applications that are written to target the EVM environment with little friction.

> [Moonriver](https://docs.moonbeam.network/networks/moonriver/){target=\_blank}, a companion network to Moonbeam,
> launched as a parachain on Kusama.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Moonriver](https://docs.moonbeam.network/networks/moonriver/){target=\_blank}, a companion network to Moonbeam, launched as a parachain on Kusama.
```

### Astar

- ink! - [**Supported**](https://docs.astar.network/docs/build/#wasm-smart-contracts){target=\_blank}
- EVM (Solidity) - [ **Supported**](https://docs.astar.network/docs/build/#evm-smart-contracts){target=\_blank}

[Astar Network](https://astar.network/){target=\_blank} supports the building of dApps with EVM and Wasm smart contracts and offers developers true interoperability. True interoperability with cross-consensus messaging [XCM](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-xcm){target=\_blank} and cross-virtual machine [XVM](https://astar.network/developers){target=\_blank}.Astar's unique [Build2Earn](https://docs.astar.network/docs/build/#build2earn){target=\_blank} model empowers developers to get paid through a dApp staking mechanism for the code they write and dApps they build.

[Shiden Network](https://shiden.astar.network/){target=\_blank} is the canary network of Astar Network, live as a parachain on Kusama, and supports the EVM and Wasm environment for all developers who want to build out use-cases in a canary network with economic value. Shiden acts as a playground for developers.

> Try deploying an Ethereum or ink! smart contract by following their
> [documentation](https://docs.astar.network/){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Try deploying an Ethereum or ink! smart contract by following their [documentation](https://docs.astar.network/){target=\_blank}.
```

### Acala

> - ink! - **Unsupported**
> - EVM (Solidity) - [**Supported**](https://wiki.acala.network/build/development-guide){target=\_blank}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **ink!** - unsupported
- **EVM (Solidity)** - [supported](https://wiki.acala.network/build/development-guide){target=\_blank}
```

[Acala](https://acala.network/){target=\_blank} is a decentralized finance consortium and DeFi infrastructure chain
delivering a set of protocols to serve as the DeFi hub on Polkadot.

[Karura](https://acala.network/karura){target=\_blank}, Acala's canary network is live as a parachain on Kusama. Interested teams are now able to deploy DApps and smart contracts on Karura's platform. Acala is also implementing the [Acala EVM](https://wiki.acala.network/learn/acala-evm/why-acala-evm){target=\_blank}.

Try deploying an Acala EVM smart contract by following their [documentation](https://wiki.acala.network/build/development-guide/smart-contracts){target=\_blank}.

### Phala

> - ink! - **Unsupported**
> - EVM (Solidity) - **Unsupported**
> - See - [**Phat Contracts** / **AI Agent Contracts**](https://phala.network/phat-contract){target=\_blank}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **ink!** - unsupported
- **EVM (Solidity)** - unsupported
- **Phat Contracts** / **AI Agent Contracts** - [supported](https://phala.network/phat-contract){target=\_blank}
```

[Phala](https://phala.network){target=\_blank} is an off-chain trustless compute infrastructure that provides fully verifiable computation. [Khala](https://phala.network/en/khala){target=\_blank} is Phala's canary network and is live as a parachain on Kusama.

> Try deploying a smart contract that interacts with Etherscan's web2 API by following their
> [documentation](https://docs.phala.network/ai-agent-contract/build){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Try deploying a smart contract that interacts with Etherscan's Web2 API by following their [documentation](https://docs.phala.network/ai-agent-contract/build){target=\_blank}.
```

### Darwinia

> - ink! - **Unsupported**
> - EVM (Solidity) - [**Supported**](https://docs.darwinia.network/build/getting-started/networks/overview/){target=\_blank}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **ink!** - unsupported
- **EVM (Solidity)** - [supported](https://docs.darwinia.network/build/getting-started/networks/overview/){target=\_blank}
```

---
title: Smart Contracts
description: Learn how to navigate the smart contract aspect of the Polkadot ecosystem, including available languages (Solidity, ink), platforms, and compilation targets.
---

Polkadot doesn't support smart contracts natively. Rather, parachains secured by Polkadot are equipped with the functionality to support smart contracts.

> The two primary supported smart contract environments are [ink!](#ink) and EVM. There are multiple [parachains that support both environments](#parachains).

Reviewer 3: #parachain does not seem to exist in the page

## Developing a Smart Contract Versus a Parachain

!!!info "For a more technical/thorough breakdown, refer to the [`polkadot_sdk_docs`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/polkadot_sdk_docs/reference_docs/runtime_vs_smart_contract/index.html){target=\_blank}"

> [When should one build a Substrate (Polkadot SDK) runtime versus a Substrate (Polkadot SDK) smart contract](https://stackoverflow.com/a/56041305){target=\_blank}?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[When should one build a Substrate (Polkadot SDK) runtime versus a Substrate (Polkadot SDK) smart contract?](https://stackoverflow.com/a/56041305){target=\_blank}
```

This post also answers the question more technically of when a developer might choose to develop a runtime versus a smart contract.

### Layer of Abstraction

When you write a smart contract, you are creating the instructions that associate with and deploy on
a specific chain address.

In comparison, a runtime module on a parachain is the entire logic of a chain's state transitions
(what's called a state transition function).

Smart contracts must consciously implement a path to upgrading in the future, while parachains have the ability to swap
out their code through a forkless upgrade.

When you build a smart contract, it will eventually be deployed to a target chain with its own
environment. Parachains allow the developer to declare the environment of their own chain, even
allowing others to write smart contracts for it.

The concept of *gas*, or *fees* in general, also are approached differently between the two. Smart contracts are bound by the gas-metering model, whereas runtimes (and their subsequent modules) are much more flexible in terms of the fee models that can be employed.

## Building a Smart Contract

> The relay chain doesn't natively support smart contracts. However, since the parachains that connect to can support arbitrary state transitions, they support smart contracts.

Reviewer 3: This paragraph seems a bit difficult to read at least for me, I was about to propose something like:

```suggestion
The relay chain doesn't support smart contracts natively. However, since the parachains that connect to it can support arbitrary state transitions, they can also support smart contracts.
```

The Polkadot SDK presently supports smart contracts out-of-the-box in several ways:

- The EVM pallet offered by [Frontier](https://github.com/paritytech/frontier){target=\_blank}
- The [contracts pallet](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/blob/master/substrate/frame/contracts/){target=\_blank} in the FRAME library for Wasm-based contracts

### Frontier EVM Contracts

> [Frontier](https://github.com/paritytech/frontier) is the suite of tools that enables a Substrate chain to run Ethereum contracts (EVM) natively with the same API/RPC interface, Ethereum exposes on Substrate. Ethereum Addresses can also be mapped directly to and from Substrate's SS58 scheme from existing accounts.

Reviewer 3: Probably this is super nit-picking, but I think I'd be fantastic to add a link or reference to some resource that explains "Ethereum Addresses", just for those devs that might not know what's the diff between substrate addresses and eth addresses

Author: I feel like the best place that explains this is Moonbeam docs atm, I'll link those for now?

- [Pallet EVM](https://docs.rs/pallet-evm/latest/pallet_evm/){target=\_blank} - enables functionality of running EVM (Solidity) contracts
- [Pallet Ethereum](https://docs.rs/pallet-ethereum/latest/pallet_ethereum/){target=\_blank} - Ethereum RPC implementation, block emulation, and Ethereum transaction validation

### Contracts Pallet

> The contracts pallet (`pallet_contracts`) implements a WebAssembly based approach to smart contracts.

Reviewer 3: I'd add a link to the contracts pallet source code :)

Reviewer 3: Also, I'd add a bit more of intro here, just because it seems a bit unconnected to start talking about pallet contracts features directly immediately after this sentence

> The contracts pallet (`pallet_contracts`) implements a WebAssembly based approach to smart contracts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The contracts pallet (`pallet_contracts`) implements a Wasm based approach to smart contracts.
```

> 1. **Wasm**. The contracts pallet uses WebAssembly as its compilation target. Any language that
>    compiles to Wasm can potentially be used to write smart contracts. Nevertheless, it is better to
>    have a dedicated domain-specific language, and for that reason Parity offers the [ink!](#ink)
>    language.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. **Wasm** - the contracts pallet uses WebAssembly as its compilation target. Any language that compiles to Wasm can be used to write smart contracts. Nevertheless, having a dedicated domain-specific language is better, so Parity offers the [ink!](#ink) language
```

> 2. **Deposit**. Contracts must hold a deposit (named _ContractDeposit_ ) suitably large enough in
>    order to justify their existence on-chain. The developer needs to deposit this into the new contract
>    on top of the _ExistentialDeposit_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. **Deposit** - contracts must hold a deposit (named `_ContractDeposit_` ) suitably large enough to justify their existence on-chain. The developer must deposit this into the new contract on top of the `_ExistentialDeposit_`
```

> 3. **Caching**. Contracts are cached by default and therefore means they only need to be deployed
>    once and afterward be instantiated as many times as you want. This helps to keep the storage load
>    on the chain down to the minimum. On top of this, when a contract is no longer being used and the
>    _existential deposit_ is drained, the code will be erased from storage (known as reaping).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. **Caching** - contracts are cached by default, and therefore means they only need to be deployed once and afterward be instantiated as many times as you want. This helps keep the chain's storage load down to the minimum. On top of this, when a contract is no longer being used and the `_existential deposit_` is drained, the code will be erased from storage (known as reaping)
```

### Ink

[ink!](https://github.com/use-ink/ink){target=\_blank} is a domain specific language for writing smart contracts
in Rust and compiles to Wasm code.

Here is the list of current resources available to developers who want to get started writing smart
contracts to deploy on parachains based on Substrate.

- [ink!](https://use.ink/){target=\_blank} - Polkadot's "native" smart contract stack, based on WebAssembly

> - [OpenBrush](https://docs.openbrush.io/){target=\_blank}: an `ink!` library providing standard contracts based on [PSP](https://github.com/w3f/PSPs){target=\_blank} with useful contracts and macros for building

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [OpenBrush](https://docs.openbrush.io/){target=\_blank} - an `ink!` library providing standard contracts based on [PSP](https://github.com/w3f/PSPs){target=\_blank} with useful contracts and macros for building
```

> - [ink!athon](https://inkathon.xyz/){target=\_blank}: Starter kit for full-stack dApps with ink! smart contracts and frontend

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [ink!athon](https://inkathon.xyz/){target=\_blank} - starter kit for full-stack dApps with ink! smart contracts and frontend
```

> ink! has laid much of the groundwork for a new smart contract stack that is based on a Wasm virtual

Reviewer 3: Throughout this page, I've read both `WebAssembly` and `Wasm`, please stick to one standard

machine and compatible with Substrate chains.

## Smart Contract Environments

Many smart contract platforms are building to become a parachain in the ecosystem. A community created and maintained list of different smart contract platforms can be found at [PolkaProjects](https://www.polkaproject.com/#/projects?cateID=1&tagID=6){target=\_blank}. Additionally, information about ink smart contracts can be accessed at [use.ink](https://use.ink/#where-can-i-deploy-ink-contracts){target=\_blank}.

#### Moonbeam

- ink!: **Unsupported**

> - EVM (Solidity): [**Supported**](https://moonbeam.network/networks/moonbeam/){target=\_blank}

Author: Added another link, let me know if that one is better

[Moonbeam](https://moonbeam.network/){target=\_blank} is another project that is planning to deploy to Polkadot as a
parachain and will support Ethereum compatible smart contracts. Since Moonbeam uses
[Frontier](https://github.com/paritytech/frontier){target=\_blank}, an interoperability layer with existing Ethereum
tooling, it will support all applications that are written to target the EVM environment with little

> friction.

Reviewer 3: This should be written in the present tense since Moonbeam is already a parachain and already supports apps written to target EVM environments

[Moonriver](https://docs.moonbeam.network/networks/moonriver/){target=\_blank}, a companion network to Moonbeam,
launched as a parachain on Kusama. Parachain functionality is live, and features are being
incrementally released. The final phase of the launch will include EVM functionality and balance
transfers.

Try deploying a smart contract to Moonbeam by following their [documentation](https://docs.moonbeam.network/){target=\_blank}.

#### Astar

- ink!/Wasm: [**Supported**](https://docs.astar.network/docs/build/#wasm-smart-contracts){target=\_blank}
- EVM (Solidity): [ **Supported**](https://docs.astar.network/docs/build/#evm-smart-contracts){target=\_blank}

[Astar Network](https://astar.network/){target=\_blank} supports the building of dApps with EVM and Wasm smart
contracts and offers developers true interoperability. True interoperability with cross-consensus
messaging [XCM](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-xcm){target=\_blank} and cross-virtual machine

> [XVM](https://github.com/AstarNetwork/){target=\_blank}. We are made by developers and for developers. Astar’s

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[XVM](https://github.com/AstarNetwork/){target=\_blank}. Astar’s
```

> [XVM](https://github.com/AstarNetwork/){target=\_blank}. We are made by developers and for developers. Astar’s

Author: Looks like the docs for it no longer exist, it's a bit confusing, might have to rewrite this section.

unique Build2Earn model empowers developers to get paid through a dApp staking mechanism for the
code they write and dApps they build.

[Shiden Network](https://shiden.astar.network/){target=\_blank} is the canary network of Astar Network, live as a
parachain on Kusama, and supports the EVM and Wasm environment for all developers who want to build
out use-cases in a canary network with economic value. Shiden acts as a playground for developers.

Try deploying an Ethereum or ink! smart contract by following their
[documentation](https://docs.astar.network/){target=\_blank}.

#### Acala

> - ink!: **Unsupported**
> - EVM (Solidity): [**Supported**](https://wiki.acala.network/build/development-guide){target=\_blank}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ink! - **Unsupported**
- EVM (Solidity) - [**Supported**](https://wiki.acala.network/build/development-guide){target=\_blank}
```

[Acala](https://acala.network/){target=\_blank} is a decentralized finance consortium and DeFi infrastructure chain
delivering a set of protocols to serve as the DeFi hub on Polkadot.

[Karura](https://acala.network/karura){target=\_blank}, Acala's canary network is live as a parachain on Kusama.
Interested teams are now able to deploy DApps and smart contracts on Karura's platform. Acala is
also implementing the [Acala EVM](https://wiki.acala.network/learn/acala-evm/why-acala-evm){target=\_blank}.

Try deploying an Acala EVM smart contract by following their [documentation](https://wiki.acala.network/build/development-guide/smart-contracts){target=\_blank}.

#### Phala

- ink!: **Unsupported**
- EVM (Solidity): **Unsupported**

> - See: [**Phat Contracts** / **AI Agent Contracts**](https://phala.network/phat-contractt){target=\_blank}

Reviewer 3: This link is broken: https://phala.network/phat-contractt
